Metrics docs (#2256)
kroxylicious/kroxylicious: docs/modules/monitoring/con-prometheus-metrics-proxy.adoc

// file included in the following:
//
// kroxylicious-operator/index.adoc

[id='con-prometheus-metrics-proxy-{context}']
= Overview of proxy metrics

[role="_abstract"]

> The proxy provides *connection metrics* and *message metrics*.
> 
> Connection metrics allow the connections made from the clients to the proxy (downstream)
> and the connection made by the proxy to the Kafka cluster (upstream) to be understood.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The proxy provides metrics about *connections*, both incoming and out going, and *messages*.

The metrics are grouped into downstream, or client side, metrics and upstream, or broker side, metrics so that users can interpret the effect the proxy and its filters are having on their Kafka clusters.
```

|===
|Metric Name |Type |Labels|Description

|`kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_connection_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`
|Incremented by one every time a connection is accepted from a client by the proxy. +
 This metric counts all connection attempts that reach the proxy, even those that end in error.

|`kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_errors_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`
|Incremented by one every time a connection is closed due to any downstream error.

|`kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_connections_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`
|Incremented by one every time a connection is made to the server from the proxy. +
 This metric counts all connections attempted to the broker, even those that end in error.

|`kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_errors_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`
|Incremented by one every time a connection is closed due to any upstream error.
|===

== Message metrics

Message metrics count the Kafka protocol requests and responses that flow through the proxy.

> * Client-end counters

Author: I'll switch back to downstream / upstream.  We can bike-shed about a global change elsewhere!

** `kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_request_total` counts requests as they arrive from the client.
** `kroxylicious_proxy_to_client_response_total` counts responses as they are returned to the client.

> * Broker-end counters

Author: I don't like kafka-side.  It is really all kafka both sides.

|===
|Metric Name |Type |Labels|Description

|`kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_connection_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`
|Incremented by one every time a connection is accepted from a client by the proxy. +
 This metric counts all connection attempts that reach the proxy, even those that end in error.

|`kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_errors_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`
|Incremented by one every time a connection is closed due to any downstream error.

|`kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_connections_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`
|Incremented by one every time a connection is made to the server from the proxy. +
 This metric counts all connections attempted to the broker, even those that end in error.

|`kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_errors_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`
|Incremented by one every time a connection is closed due to any upstream error.
|===

== Message metrics

Message metrics count the Kafka protocol requests and responses that flow through the proxy.

> image::../_assets/monitoring-message-counters.svg["Conceptual diagram showing the client-end and broker-end message counters within the proxy, illustrating how they respond to message transit through it."]

Author: > This diagram wouldn't conform to image conventions downstream.

@PaulRMellor what's the issue?  Is it that we've used an SVG?  We have these elsewhere already. Or it is the content?
